---
Id: 1002
Title: Central Business Intelligence and Service Delivery Framework
Author: Gaurav
Tags: React Next
Topic: Banking
Abstract: Difference between different types of rendering techniques and advantage of Next.js over React.js.
HeaderImage: /BL-1002/next-react.jpg
isPublished: true
---

### Central Business Intelligence and Service Delivery Framework

**Problem Statement:**

- Stifel had a Bill Pay application.
- NPS scores were not too good for that Bill Payment product.
- The overall percentage of users enrolled in Bill Pay was 11 percent.
- Stifel Bank pushed campaigns and promotions in the past and have found some lift, averaging 2 to 3 percent.
- Nearly 50 percent of bill pay accounts were inactive.  
  - Inactive bill pay accounts are subscribers who have not paid a bill in 4 months.

**Banks Transformational Leader**

- How is it aligned with their bank's goals?
- How will it be better for business?
- How much is the value?

**ROI Estimate - Metrics**

**Maximize Customer Satisfaction - Increase Consumer Engagement by 30%**

- NPS scores were not too good for the Bill Payment product.

**Increase Customer Stickiness**

- Once customers have all their bills set up, it becomes more troublesome to change banks.
- This reduces customer turnover rates, which lowers costs.

**More Companies Linked to CheckFree RXP**

- CheckFree RXP supports the delivery of e-bills from more than 600 companies including utilities, insurers, mobile providers, and credit card companies, enabling consumers to receive and pay bills on their financial institution's website.
- With Fiserv, inactive bill payment user levels out at 25%, with 75% being active (active users pay at least one bill in a given month).

**Bank Charges**

- While many banks charge a 5% fee, the company's processing fees are only 1.25% of the total purchase, and 1% of that is passed through to the customer as a cash back reward.
- All a customer needs to do to purchase items with AeroPay is sync their bank account, and the app will automatically connect when they enter a participating store.

**Three Major Goals in Business**

- Increase revenue
- Lower costs
- Reduce losses

**Payment Conversion Rate**

- The more detail CheckFree RXP can provide about the reasons behind declined transactions, the better.
- For example, if an unusually high number of transactions are declined due to possible fraud, CheckFree RXP should work harder behind the scenes to prevent this from happening.
- Focus on addressing the key issues that arise.
- This metric shows how many transactions were declined in total.
  - If 80 out of 100 transactions were successful, you have an 80% payment conversion rate. There are many reasons for declined transactions:
    - Incorrect card information
    - Insufficient funds
    - Invalid card numbers
    - Suspicion of fraud

**Define Number of Users**

- For various reasons, some charges may fail. 
- Whether it’s a bank-declined payment, a blocked Stripe payment, or an invalid API call, knowing the total declined amount and type is essential for taking appropriate action.

**Top Customers with Total Spend**

- Knowing your most valuable and delighted customers is important for every company.
- Good customers will make big purchases and generate a substantial portion of your revenue.

**New Customers Over Time**

- Steady customer base growth maximizes revenue and is the ultimate goal of every company.

**Disputes & Fraud**

- It’s important to monitor both the number and status of disputes, along with their type.
- Depending on the dispute type, you may need to take certain actions and provide specific evidence.
