---
Id: 1004
Title: API GATEWAYS
Author: Gaurav
Tags: API
Topic: API GATEWAYS
Abstract: 
HeaderImage: /BL-1001/header.jpg
isPublished: false
---

# API GATEWAYS
- APIs, especially those connecting to a wide variety of endpoints (e.g., microservices), will use an API Gateway, which is essentially a wrapper that facilitates interactions and secure connections.
- An API Gateway is like a telephone operator that sits at a switchboard to route a call to the correct line.
- The emergence of open providers allows third parties controlled access to certain information within the system without exposing the "inner secrets" — the details of how it was built and works.
- To protect these inner workings, system developers created "helper objects" that accept messages from authenticated users and forward them to the appropriate resource within the system.
- This technique, known as a façade design pattern, protects the institution from unauthorized access by concealing system design and implementation details.
- While API Gateways in their strictest sense act as a secure interface to different endpoints, they are often built with additional capabilities such as API Management.
    - By incorporating throttling models to limit who pulls data, and when and how frequently data is pulled, APIs can improve the overall security of customer information.
    - With APIs, a customer can opt to share their password with only one institution, which then controls permissioning with third parties.

# VERSIONING
- Just like any software, APIs will evolve and release new versions.
- However, with an API, it’s trickier because multiple parties consuming the API could be affected.
- APIs must remain backward compatible with previous versions.
- APIs will add functionality but rarely remove it.
- When removing functionality cannot be avoided, developers can create layers to translate calls to older versions of the API.

# TESTING
Testing typically involves a series of calls to the API to check:
- Errors received after making a call.
- Calls successfully made to another API.
- Data or information retrieved properly (correct fields and format).

## Myth
- **"APIs don’t require as rigorous testing as other systems."**
- A misconception is that since APIs serve as interfaces to extensively tested underlying applications, the APIs themselves don’t need rigorous testing beyond functional testing.
- This attitude is risky for institutions using APIs for competitive advantage. Promoting an API as "market-leading" or "fully-featured" attracts not only potential clients but potential hackers.

# CONSENT MANAGEMENT
- A subset of API management, consent management, is specific to financial services and deals with consumer permissions.
- As APIs access permissioned consumer data and transactions more globally, they need to manage consent across apps.
- Consumers should have a portal to revoke access if they no longer want a third party to access their financial data.

# MONITORING
- API owners track the usage and activity of an API available to third parties.
- Monitoring provides insights into API usage, popular functions, velocity, and volume of inbound calls.
- Monitoring is critical infrastructure, as it allows developers to fix issues quickly, minimizing impact.
- API monitoring includes numerous alerting options based on criteria or thresholds.

# LIMITS
- Most APIs need protection against overuse or abuse of calls to the backend.
- APIs typically include parameters defining spike arresting, rate limits, or throttling.
    - **Spike Arresting**: A mechanism to address fraud or cybersecurity threats, handling spikes in API requests from third-party products.
    - **Rate Limits**: Limit the number of calls per session, time period, or access token.
    - For example:
      ```plaintext
      X-Ratelimit-Limit: 5000
      ```
    - **Throttling**: Similar to rate limits, but may involve slowing down the number of calls or restricting access in other ways.
    - In financial services, many legacy systems wrapped in API layers weren't designed for granular requests, often sending bulk data responses.

# SECURITY
- Includes identity management, verification, and account instructions management.

# DEVELOPER PORTAL
- Provides a workbench for designing, constructing, debugging, and testing.

# LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
- Enables continuous DevOps control, from onboarding to release, with continuous regression testing and version management.
- Establishes a central location for codification and version management of API design, construction, use, and management.

# STANDARD REPOSITORY
- Provides a catalog for users to search, check APIs in and out.
- Allows creation and management of prebuilt integration connectors and adapters to internal and external systems.
- Ensures clients access services in a way that is native to their environment.

# THIRD-PARTY MANAGEMENT
- Provides a single gateway to interact with third parties, including a marketplace for insurers to monetize APIs.
- Delivers visibility into API use and performance in both development and production.
- Operational data offers tactical direction, while trend analysis on API usage tracks alignment with goals.
