---
Id: 1005
Title: Open Banking
Author: Gaurav
Tags: Open Banking
Topic: Open Banking
Abstract: Open banking describes the shift from a closed model, where data exchange occurs strictly between the customer and the bank, to a model in which data is shared between different members of the banking ecosystem.
HeaderImage: /BL-1005/header.png
isPublished: true
---


# Open Banking

By facilitating networks instead of centralization, Open Banking helps create more competition in the financial market. Data sharing is enabled only after the customer's authorization through the use of **Application Programming Interface (API)**. The shared data can be used by **third-party providers (TPPs)** to provide consumers with innovative value-added banking services.

The difference is that while **PSD2** requires banks to open up their data to third parties, other countries, including the USA and China, follow a market-driven approach. For instance, banks in China are already making significant use of open APIs, even though there is no legal mandate to drive this.

## Popular Use Cases

The ease of access facilitated by APIs creates opportunities for TPPs to act as platforms for delivering innovative and personalized services, such as:

1. **Aggregation**: Personal Finance Management (PFM) platforms aggregate accounts from multiple banks conveniently in one place, providing customers with insights into their income and expenditure. These tools are much simpler and quicker to use than an Excel sheet.
   
2. **Payment Requests**: Payment platforms trigger payments directly from bank accounts, allowing customers to initiate payments via a third-party interface.
   
3. **Recommendations**: Sharing of transactional data allows PFM platforms to provide **robo-advice**, offering automated advice services that rely on analytics and algorithms to deliver guidance and tailored recommendations on banking and investment products.

Open banking also provides an opportunity for incumbent banks to develop new fee-based revenue streams by allowing TPPs to access their infrastructure.

## Strategic Choices in Open Banking

In an open banking world, banks will need to make a strategic choice between defending ownership and becoming orchestrators for open banking.

The term **"open banking"** is used for two different activities:
1. Giving non-banks access to bank data.
2. Allowing non-banks (or, more precisely, Financial Service Providers (FSPs) that don’t provide transaction accounts) to initiate payment transactions.
```
